
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# A Study on Commuting-Induced Stress and Coping Strategies in Santiago, Chile

This is the repository with the M.Sc. thesis of Niloofar Nalaee.

## Abstract

This research makes a two-fold contribution. First, it compiles an
extensive array of data including socio-demographics, health metrics,
feelings and emotions, built environment, and work commute-related
details, all presented in a comprehensive and reproducible data package
format. Subsequently, the study delves into the commuting stress
analysis and identifying the various coping strategies employed by
commuters. The data used for the analysis have been derived from the
demographics and health information sections of the dataset. Serving as
a reproducible data package, it provides a robust foundation for future
research endeavors. Future researchers can have access to the data set
as an open source data set allowing them to understand the
representativeness of this data package and enable them to replicate
various stages where needed.

The research examines the effect of commuting on stress for both
motorized and non motorized commuters and understanding how they cope
with it. Understanding this effect can be helpful for decision makers in
economy, transportation planning, and demographics studies to promote a
safe and peaceful experience of travel for all the commuters in
community. Moreover, understanding the emotional states of individuals
during their journeys and how they navigate and manage the negative
feelings of commuting can be beneficial for decision makers to enhance
commuting experiences and feelings.

To this end, a bivariate ordinal model was adopted, allowing for an
analysis of stress factors and their interactions with key exploratory
variables, including income, age, and choice of transportation mode.
Interestingly, the results obtained from the context of Santiago, Chile,
a region characterized by a predominance of middle and low-income
populations according to the research findings, revealed intriguing
patterns. The study found that commuting stress influence people in
different way regarding their age. Moreover, commuting stress at higher
levels decreases at elevated age levels. This trend remains steady as
commuters gain higher economic status and have access to alternative
modes of transportation beyond public means. Policymakers and
transportation planners should consider the complex interplay of two
following clusters according to the result of this research to improve
commuting experiences. The first encompasses factors such as income
status, choice among different modes of transportation, and age. The
second pertains to commuting stress and importance of stress from
commuters’ viewpoint. A salient example of the consequence of this
interplay, is evident in the research, where normalization is employed,
showcasing both potential advantages and drawbacks. The findings suggest
that promoting active travel options could contribute to a happier
commuting experience, emphasizing the importance of understanding coping
mechanisms across different commuter groups for the design of effective
policies.

The implications of these findings extend to the domain of
transportation system planning and urban development. By shedding light
on the challenges caused by commuting stress and highlighting effective
coping mechanisms, this research holds the potential to improve
individuals’ overall quality of life. Furthermore, the gained insights
can inform urban planning initiatives and facilitate the commuting
experience by considering commuters’ experiences and the associated
factors. Ultimately, the integration of these insights into policies and
practices has the capacity to cultivate sustainable and resilient
communities, which thrive even when facing the inevitable stresses
associated with daily commuting.
